Add CSS scroll-timeline* properties (#21277)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/scroll-timeline/index.md

    Possible values are described in [`<custom-ident>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/custom-ident).

The `<scroll-timeline-axis>` indicates which scrollbar axis, in the container identified by `<scroll-timeline-name>`, provides the scroll timeline.
Allowed values are:

- `block`
  - : (Default) Scrollbar in the block axis of the scroll container.
      The block axis is the direction perpendicular to the flow of text within a line.
      For horizontal writing modes like standard English this is the same as `vertical`, while for vertical writing modes it is the same as `horizontal`.
- `inline`
  - : Scrollbar the inline axis of the scroll container.
    The inline axis is the direction parallel to the flow of text in a line.
    For horizontal writing modes this is the same as `horizontal`, while for vertical writing modes this is the same as `vertical`.
- `vertical`
  - : Scrollbar in the vertical axis of the scroll container.
- `horizontal`
  - : Scrollbar in the horizontal axis of the scroll container.

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

<!-- Minor modification of example in animation-timeline -->

> ### Setting a scroll timeline

Author: This example was modified from the one in [animation-timeline](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timeline). That example works in Chrome but no Firefox, which does not yet fully support the `scroll()` or the (what I think is deprecated) `@scroll-timeline` rule.

What I did was remove the `@scroll-timeline` named `squareTimeline` which previously provided the timeline,  and instead apply `scroll-timeline-name: squareTimeline;` to the container. This same name is still referenced so I thought that this was all that needed to happen. However it does not work! Need to get advice before this can be merged.

---
title: scroll-timeline
slug: Web/CSS/scroll-timeline
page-type: css-shorthand-property
browser-compat: css.properties.scroll-timeline
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`scroll-timeline`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [shorthand property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) defines a name that can be used to identify the source element of a scroll-timeline, along with the scrollbar axis that should provide the timeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`scroll-timeline`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [shorthand property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) defines a name that can be used to identify the source element of a scroll timeline, along with the scrollbar axis that should provide the timeline.
```

> The name can be referenced in an [`animation-timeline`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timeline) declaration; indicated the element and hence the scroll bar that will be used to control the progress of the animation.

Reviewer: seems to be incomplete: "declaration; indicated"

Author: Thanks!

```suggestion
The name can be referenced in an [`animation-timeline`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timeline) declaration in order to indicate the element, and hence the scrollbar, that will be used to control the progress of the animation.
```

Note that if the element does not display a scrollbar in the axis dimension, then no timeline will be created.

> The `scroll-timeline` property is equivalent to setting both [`scroll-timeline-name`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-timeline-name) and [`scroll-timeline-axis`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-timeline-axis) in a single declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `scroll-timeline` property is equivalent to setting both [`scroll-timeline-name`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-timeline-name) and [`scroll-timeline-axis`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-timeline-axis) properties in a single declaration.
```

## Constituent properties

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:

- [`scroll-timeline-name`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-timeline-name)
- [`scroll-timeline-axis`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-timeline-axis)

## Syntax

```css

> /* scroll-timeline-name and scroll-timeline-axis */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/* values for both scroll-timeline-name and scroll-timeline-axis */
```

scroll-timeline: custom_name_for_timeline block;
scroll-timeline: custom_name_for_timeline inline;
scroll-timeline: custom_name_for_timeline vertical;
scroll-timeline: custom_name_for_timeline horizontal;

> /* none and scroll-timeline-axis */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/* none keyword for scroll-timeline-name and value for scroll-timeline-axis */
```

scroll-timeline: none block;
scroll-timeline: none inline;
scroll-timeline: none vertical;
scroll-timeline: none horizontal;

/* scroll-timeline-name or scroll-timeline-axis */
scroll-timeline: none;
scroll-timeline: custom_name_for_timeline;
scroll-timeline: block;
scroll-timeline: inline;
scroll-timeline: vertical;
scroll-timeline: horizontal;
```

### Values

A `<scroll-timeline-name>` value followed by a `<scroll-timeline-axis>` value may be applied to the container element in any order.
At least one value must be applied.

> Allowed values for `<scroll-timeline-name>` are:

Reviewer: Is there is a way to avoid repeating the value descriptions here to reduce maintenance effort in future? What if we don't list the definitions here but point to respective property pages?

> A `<scroll-timeline-name>` value followed by a `<scroll-timeline-axis>` value may be applied to the container element in any order.
> At least one value must be applied.
> 
> Allowed values for `<scroll-timeline-name>` are:
> 
> - `none`
>   - : The timeline has no name.
> - `<custom-ident>`
>   - : An arbitrary custom identifier that can be used to reference the scroll timeline in an [`animation-timeline`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timeline).
>     Possible values are described in [`<custom-ident>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/custom-ident).
> 
> The `<scroll-timeline-axis>` indicates which scrollbar axis, in the element identified by `<scroll-timeline-name>`, provides the scroll timeline.
> Allowed values are:
> 
> - `block`
>   - : (Default) Scrollbar in the block axis of the scroll container.
>     The block axis is the direction perpendicular to the flow of text within a line.
>     For horizontal writing modes like standard English this is the same as `vertical`, while for vertical writing modes it is the same as `horizontal`.
> - `inline`
>   - : Scrollbar in the inline axis of the scroll container.
>     The inline axis is the direction parallel to the flow of text in a line.
>     For horizontal writing modes this is the same as `horizontal`, while for vertical writing modes this is the same as `vertical`.
> - `vertical`
>   - : Scrollbar in the vertical axis of the scroll container.
> - `horizontal`
>   - : Scrollbar in the horizontal axis of the scroll container.

Author: Thanks. That makes sense. Does this work for you?

```suggestion
A `<scroll-timeline-name>` value followed by a `<scroll-timeline-axis>` value may be applied to the container element in any order.
At least one value must be applied.

Allowed values are:

-  `<scroll-timeline-name>` 
  - : The name used to identify the timeline.
    See [`scroll-timeline-name`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-timeline-name).
- `<scroll-timeline-axis>`
  - :  The axis of the element that provides the scrollbar used for the timeline.
    The default is the scrollbar in the block axis.
    See [`scroll-timeline-axis`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-timeline-axis).
```

Reviewer: Yes, this is much better. Thank you :)

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

> A scroll timeline named `squareTimeline` is defined using the `scroll-timeline-name` property on the element with id `container`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, a scroll timeline named `squareTimeline` is defined using the `scroll-timeline-name` property on the element with the id `container`.
```

This is then applied to the animation on the `#square` element using `animation-timeline: squareTimeline`.

### HTML

The HTML for the example is shown below.

```html
<div id="container">
  <div id="square"></div>
  <div id="stretcher"></div>
</div>
```

### CSS

The CSS for the container sets it as the source of a scroll timeline named `squareTimeline` using the `scroll-timeline` property.
It also sets the scrollbar to use for the timeline as "vertical" (though this was not actually needed as it would have been used by default).

> The height of the container is set to 300px and we also set the container to create a vertical scrollbar it it overflows (below we will use CSS on the "stretcher" element to ensure that it does overflow).

Reviewer: double "it" typo here

Author: ```suggestion
The height of the container is set to 300px and we also set the container to create a vertical scrollbar if it overflows (below we will use CSS on the "stretcher" element to ensure that it does overflow).
```

```css
#container {
  height: 300px;
  overflow-y: scroll;
  scroll-timeline: squareTimeline vertical;
  position: relative;
}
```

The CSS below defines a square that rotates in alternate directions according to the timeline provided by the `animation-timeline` property, which is set to the `squareTimeline` timeline named above.

```css
#square {
  background-color: deeppink;
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  margin-top: 100px;
  animation-name: rotateAnimation;
  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-direction: alternate;
  animation-timeline: squareTimeline;

  position: absolute;
  bottom: 0;
}

@keyframes rotateAnimation {
  from {
    transform: rotate(0deg);
  }
  to {
    transform: rotate(360deg);
  }
}
```

The "stretcher" CSS simply sets the block height to 600px, which forces the container element to overflow and create scroll bars.

> Without this element there would be no scrollbar, and hence no scroll timeline to associate with the animation timeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without this element, there would be no scrollbar, and hence no scroll timeline to associate with the animation timeline.
```

Author: Choosing to ignore.

```css
#stretcher {
  height: 600px;
}
```

### Result

> Scroll to see the animation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scroll the vertical bar to see the animation.
```
